website/docs/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/tfversion-checks.mdx, before:

---
page_title: 'Plugin Development - Acceptance Testing: Terraform Version Checks'
description: >-
  Terraform Version Checks are generic checks defined at the TestCase level that check logic against the Terraform CLI version. The testing module
  provides built-in Version Checks for common use-cases, but custom Version Checks can also be implemented.
---

# Terraform Version Checks

**Terraform Version Checks** are generic checks defined at the TestCase level that check logic against the Terraform CLI version. The checks are executed at the beginning of the TestCase before any TestStep is executed.

The Terraform CLI version is determined by the binary selected by the [`TF_ACC_TERRAFORM_PATH`](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests#environment-variables) environment variable value, installed by the [`TF_ACC_TERRAFORM_VERSION`](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests#environment-variables) value, or already existing based on the `PATH` environment variable.

A **version check** will either return an error and fail the associated test, return a skip message and pass the associated test immediately by skipping, or it will return nothing and allow the associated test to run.

## Built-in Version Checks

The `terraform-plugin-testing` module provides a package [`tfversion`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion) with built-in version checks for common use-cases. There are three types of version checks: Skip Checks, Require Checks, and Collection Checks.

### Skip Version Checks

Skip Version Checks will pass the associated test by skipping and provide a skip message if the detected Terraform CLI version satisfies the specified check criteria.

| Check                                                                                                                                             | Description                                                                                                   |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [`tfversion.SkipAbove(maximumVersion)`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion#SkipAbove)                     | Skips the test if the Terraform CLI version is above the given maximum.                                       |
| [`tfversion.SkipBelow(minimumVersion)`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion#SkipBelow)                     | Skips the test if the Terraform CLI version is below the given minimum.                                       |
| [`tfversion.SkipBetween(minimumVersion, maximumVersion)`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion#SkipBetween) | Skips the test if the Terraform CLI version is between the given minimum (inclusive) and maximum (exclusive). |
| [`tfversion.SkipIf(version)`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion#SkipIf)                                  | Skips the test if the Terraform CLI version matches the given version.                                        |

#### Example using `tfversion.SkipBetween`

The built-in [`tfversion.SkipBetween`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion#SkipBetween) version check is useful for skipping all patch versions associated with a minor version.

In the following example, we have written a test that skips all Terraform CLI patch versions associated with 0.14.0:

```go
package example_test

import (
	"testing"

	"github.com/hashicorp/go-version"
	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-go/tfprotov6"

	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/helper/resource"
	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion"
)

func Test_Skip_TF14(t *testing.T) {
	t.Parallel()

	resource.UnitTest(t, resource.TestCase{
		ProtoV6ProviderFactories: map[string]func() (tfprotov6.ProviderServer, error){
			"test": func() (tfprotov6.ProviderServer, error) {
				return nil, nil
			},
		},
		TerraformVersionChecks: []tfversion.TerraformVersionCheck{
			tfversion.SkipBetween(version.Must(version.NewVersion("0.14.0")), version.Must(version.NewVersion("0.15.0"))),
		},
		Steps: []resource.TestStep{
			{
				Config: `//example test config`,
			},
		},
	})
}
```

### Require Version Checks

Require Version Checks will raise an error and fail the associated test if the detected Terraform CLI version does not satisfy the specified check requirements.

| Check                                                                                                                                                   | Description                                                                                                   |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [`tfversion.RequireAbove(minimumVersion)`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion#RequireAbove)                     | Fails the test if the Terraform CLI version is below the given maximum.                                       |
| [`tfversion.RequireBelow(maximumVersion)`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion#RequireBelow)                     | Fails the test if the Terraform CLI version is above the given minimum.                                       |
| [`tfversion.RequireBetween(minimumVersion, maximumVersion)`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion#RequireBetween) | Fails the test if the Terraform CLI version is outside the given minimum (exclusive) and maximum (inclusive). |
| [`tfversion.RequireNot(version)`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion#RequireNot)                                | Fails the test if the Terraform CLI version matches the given version.                                        |


#### Example using `tfversion.RequireAbove`

The built-in [`tfversion.RequireAbove`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion#RequireAbove) version check is useful for required tests that may use features only available in newer versions of the Terraform ClI.

In the following example, the test Terraform configuration uses the `nullable` argument for an input variable, a feature that is only available in Terraform CLI versions `1.3.0` and above. The version check will fail the test with a specific error if the detected version is below `1.3.0`.

```go
package example_test

import (
	"testing"

	"github.com/hashicorp/go-version"
	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-go/tfprotov6"

	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/helper/resource"
	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion"
)

func Test_Require_TF1_3(t *testing.T) {
	t.Parallel()

	resource.UnitTest(t, resource.TestCase{
		ProtoV6ProviderFactories: map[string]func() (tfprotov6.ProviderServer, error){
			"test": func() (tfprotov6.ProviderServer, error) {
				return nil, nil
			},
		},
		TerraformVersionChecks: []tfversion.TerraformVersionCheck{
			tfversion.RequireAbove(version.Must(version.NewVersion("1.3.0"))),
		},
		Steps: []resource.TestStep{
			{
				Config: `variable "a" {
  					nullable = true
					default  = "hello"
				}`,
			},
		},
	})
}
```

### Collection Version Checks

Collection Version Checks operate on multiple version checks and can be used to create more complex checks.

[`tfversion.Any(TerraformVersionChecks...)`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion#Any) will run the associated test by returning a nil error and empty skip message
if any of the given version sub-checks return a nil error and empty skip message. If none of the sub-checks return a nil error and empty skip message, then the check will return all sub-check errors and fail the associated test.
Otherwise, if none of the sub-checks return a non-nil error, the check will pass the associated test by skipping and return all sub-check skip messages.

[`tfversion.All(TerraformVersionChecks...)`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion#All) will either fail or skip the associated test if any of the given sub-checks return a non-nil error or non-empty skip message. The check will return the
first non-nil error or non-empty skip message from the given sub-checks in the order that they are given. Otherwise, if all sub-checks return a nil error and empty skip message, then the check will return a nil error and empty skip message and run the associated test. This check should only be
used in conjunction with `tfversion.Any()` as the behavior provided by this check is applied to the `TerraformVersionChecks` field by default.

#### Example using `tfversion.Any`

In the following example, the test will only run if either the Terraform CLI version is above `1.2.0` or if it's below `1.0.0` but not version `0.15.0`, otherwise an error will be returned.

```go
package example_test

import (
	"testing"

	"github.com/hashicorp/go-version"
	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-go/tfprotov6"

	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/helper/resource"
	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion"
)

func Test_Any(t *testing.T) {
	t.Parallel()

	resource.UnitTest(t, resource.TestCase{
		ProtoV6ProviderFactories: map[string]func() (tfprotov6.ProviderServer, error){
			"test": func() (tfprotov6.ProviderServer, error) { //nolint:unparam // required signature
				return nil, nil
			},
		},
		TerraformVersionChecks: []tfversion.TerraformVersionCheck{
			tfversion.Any(
				tfversion.All(
					tfversion.RequireNot(version.Must(version.NewVersion("0.15.0"))),
					tfversion.RequireBelow(version.Must(version.NewVersion("1.0.0"))),
                ),
				tfversion.RequireAbove(version.Must(version.NewVersion("1.2.0"))),
			),
		},
		Steps: []resource.TestStep{
			{
				Config: `//example test config`,
			},
		},
	})
}
```


## Custom Version Checks

The package [`tfversion`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion) also provides the [`TerraformVersionCheck`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion#TerraformVersionCheck) interface, which can be implemented for a custom version check.

The [`tfversion.CheckTFVersionRequest`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion#CheckTFVersionRequest) has a `TerraformVersion` field of type [`*version.Version`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/go-version#Version) which contains the version of the Terraform CLI binary running the test.

The [`tfversion.CheckTFVersionResponse`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion#CheckTFVersionResponse) has an `Error` field and a `Skip` field. The behavior of the version check depends on which field is populated. Populating the `Error` field will fail the associated test with the given error.
Populating the `Skip` field will pass the associated test by skipping the test with the given skip message. Only one of these fields should be populated.

Here is an example implementation of a version check returns an error if the detected Terraform CLI version matches the given version:
```go
package example_test

import (
	"context"
	"fmt"

	"github.com/hashicorp/go-version"
)

func RequireNot(version *version.Version) TerraformVersionCheck {
	return requireNotCheck{
		version: version,
	}
}

type requireNotCheck struct {
	version *version.Version
}

func (s requireNotCheck) CheckTerraformVersion(ctx context.Context, req CheckTFVersionRequest, resp *CheckTFVersionResponse) {

	if req.TerraformVersion.Equal(s.version) {
		resp.Error = fmt.Errorf("unexpected Terraform CLI version: %s", s.version)
	}
}
```

And example usage:
```go
package example_test

import (
	"testing"

	"github.com/hashicorp/go-version"
	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-go/tfprotov6"

	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/helper/resource"
	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion"
)

func Test_RequireNot(t *testing.T) {
	t.Parallel()

	resource.UnitTest(t, resource.TestCase{
		ProtoV6ProviderFactories: map[string]func() (tfprotov6.ProviderServer, error){
			"test": func() (tfprotov6.ProviderServer, error) {
				return nil, nil
			},
		},
		TerraformVersionChecks: []tfversion.TerraformVersionCheck{
			tfversion.RequireNot(version.Must(version.NewVersion("0.13.0"))),
		},
		Steps: []resource.TestStep{
			{
				Config: `//example test config`,
			},
		},
	})
}
```

Commit message:

Update documentation to include and use pre-defined version variables
Co-authored-by: Brian Flad <bflad417@gmail.com>

website/docs/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/tfversion-checks.mdx, after:

---
page_title: 'Plugin Development - Acceptance Testing: Terraform Version Checks'
description: >-
  Terraform Version Checks are generic checks defined at the TestCase level that check logic against the Terraform CLI version. The testing module
  provides built-in Version Checks for common use-cases, but custom Version Checks can also be implemented.
---

# Terraform Version Checks

**Terraform Version Checks** are generic checks defined at the TestCase level that check logic against the Terraform CLI version. The checks are executed at the beginning of the TestCase before any TestStep is executed.

The Terraform CLI version is determined by the binary selected by the [`TF_ACC_TERRAFORM_PATH`](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests#environment-variables) environment variable value, installed by the [`TF_ACC_TERRAFORM_VERSION`](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests#environment-variables) value, or already existing based on the `PATH` environment variable.

A **version check** will either return an error and fail the associated test, return a skip message and pass the associated test immediately by skipping, or it will return nothing and allow the associated test to run.

## Built-in Version Checks and Variables

The `terraform-plugin-testing` module provides a package [`tfversion`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion) with built-in version checks for common use-cases. There are three types of version checks: Skip Checks, Require Checks, and Collection Checks.

## Version Variables

The built-in checks in the `tfversion` package typically require the use of the [`github.com/hashicorp/go-version`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/go-version) module [`version.Version`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/go-version#Version) type. To simplify provider testing implementations, the `tfversion` package provides [built-in variables](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion#pkg-variables) for common use case versions, such as each released minor and major Terraform version. These follow the pattern of `Version{MAJOR}_{MINOR}_{PATCH}` with the major, minor, and patch version numbers, such as `Version1_2_0`.

### Skip Version Checks

Skip Version Checks will pass the associated test by skipping and provide a skip message if the detected Terraform CLI version satisfies the specified check criteria.

| Check                                                                                                                                             | Description                                                                                                   |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [`tfversion.SkipAbove(maximumVersion)`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion#SkipAbove)                     | Skips the test if the Terraform CLI version is above the given maximum.                                       |
| [`tfversion.SkipBelow(minimumVersion)`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion#SkipBelow)                     | Skips the test if the Terraform CLI version is below the given minimum.                                       |
| [`tfversion.SkipBetween(minimumVersion, maximumVersion)`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion#SkipBetween) | Skips the test if the Terraform CLI version is between the given minimum (inclusive) and maximum (exclusive). |
| [`tfversion.SkipIf(version)`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion#SkipIf)                                  | Skips the test if the Terraform CLI version matches the given version.                                        |

#### Example using `tfversion.SkipBetween`

The built-in [`tfversion.SkipBetween`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion#SkipBetween) version check is useful for skipping all patch versions associated with a minor version.

In the following example, we have written a test that skips all Terraform CLI patch versions associated with 0.14.0:

```go
package example_test

import (
	"testing"

	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-go/tfprotov6"

	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/helper/resource"
	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion"
)

func Test_Skip_TF14(t *testing.T) {
	t.Parallel()

	resource.UnitTest(t, resource.TestCase{
		ProtoV6ProviderFactories: map[string]func() (tfprotov6.ProviderServer, error){
			"test": func() (tfprotov6.ProviderServer, error) {
				return nil, nil
			},
		},
		TerraformVersionChecks: []tfversion.TerraformVersionCheck{
			tfversion.SkipBetween(tfversion.Version0_14_0, tfversion.Version0_15_0),
		},
		Steps: []resource.TestStep{
			{
				Config: `//example test config`,
			},
		},
	})
}
```

### Require Version Checks

Require Version Checks will raise an error and fail the associated test if the detected Terraform CLI version does not satisfy the specified check requirements.

| Check                                                                                                                                                   | Description                                                                                                   |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [`tfversion.RequireAbove(minimumVersion)`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion#RequireAbove)                     | Fails the test if the Terraform CLI version is below the given maximum.                                       |
| [`tfversion.RequireBelow(maximumVersion)`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion#RequireBelow)                     | Fails the test if the Terraform CLI version is above the given minimum.                                       |
| [`tfversion.RequireBetween(minimumVersion, maximumVersion)`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion#RequireBetween) | Fails the test if the Terraform CLI version is outside the given minimum (exclusive) and maximum (inclusive). |
| [`tfversion.RequireNot(version)`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion#RequireNot)                                | Fails the test if the Terraform CLI version matches the given version.                                        |


#### Example using `tfversion.RequireAbove`

The built-in [`tfversion.RequireAbove`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion#RequireAbove) version check is useful for required tests that may use features only available in newer versions of the Terraform ClI.

In the following example, the test Terraform configuration uses the `nullable` argument for an input variable, a feature that is only available in Terraform CLI versions `1.3.0` and above. The version check will fail the test with a specific error if the detected version is below `1.3.0`.

```go
package example_test

import (
	"testing"

	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-go/tfprotov6"

	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/helper/resource"
	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion"
)

func Test_Require_TF1_3(t *testing.T) {
	t.Parallel()

	resource.UnitTest(t, resource.TestCase{
		ProtoV6ProviderFactories: map[string]func() (tfprotov6.ProviderServer, error){
			"test": func() (tfprotov6.ProviderServer, error) {
				return nil, nil
			},
		},
		TerraformVersionChecks: []tfversion.TerraformVersionCheck{
			tfversion.RequireAbove(tfversion.Version1_3_0),
		},
		Steps: []resource.TestStep{
			{
				Config: `variable "a" {
  					nullable = true
					default  = "hello"
				}`,
			},
		},
	})
}
```

### Collection Version Checks

Collection Version Checks operate on multiple version checks and can be used to create more complex checks.

[`tfversion.Any(TerraformVersionChecks...)`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion#Any) will run the associated test by returning a nil error and empty skip message
if any of the given version sub-checks return a nil error and empty skip message. If none of the sub-checks return a nil error and empty skip message, then the check will return all sub-check errors and fail the associated test.
Otherwise, if none of the sub-checks return a non-nil error, the check will pass the associated test by skipping and return all sub-check skip messages.

[`tfversion.All(TerraformVersionChecks...)`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion#All) will either fail or skip the associated test if any of the given sub-checks return a non-nil error or non-empty skip message. The check will return the
first non-nil error or non-empty skip message from the given sub-checks in the order that they are given. Otherwise, if all sub-checks return a nil error and empty skip message, then the check will return a nil error and empty skip message and run the associated test. This check should only be
used in conjunction with `tfversion.Any()` as the behavior provided by this check is applied to the `TerraformVersionChecks` field by default.

#### Example using `tfversion.Any`

In the following example, the test will only run if either the Terraform CLI version is above `1.2.0` or if it's below `1.0.0` but not version `0.15.0`, otherwise an error will be returned.

```go
package example_test

import (
	"testing"

	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-go/tfprotov6"

	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/helper/resource"
	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion"
)

func Test_Any(t *testing.T) {
	t.Parallel()

	resource.UnitTest(t, resource.TestCase{
		ProtoV6ProviderFactories: map[string]func() (tfprotov6.ProviderServer, error){
			"test": func() (tfprotov6.ProviderServer, error) { //nolint:unparam // required signature
				return nil, nil
			},
		},
		TerraformVersionChecks: []tfversion.TerraformVersionCheck{
			tfversion.Any(
				tfversion.All(
					tfversion.RequireNot(tfversion.Version0_15_0),
					tfversion.RequireBelow(tfversion.Version1_0_0),
				),
				tfversion.RequireAbove(tfversion.Version1_2_0),
			),
		},
		Steps: []resource.TestStep{
			{
				Config: `//example test config`,
			},
		},
	})
}
```


## Custom Version Checks

The package [`tfversion`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion) also provides the [`TerraformVersionCheck`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion#TerraformVersionCheck) interface, which can be implemented for a custom version check.

The [`tfversion.CheckTerraformVersionRequest`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion#CheckTerraformVersionRequest) has a `TerraformVersion` field of type [`*version.Version`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/go-version#Version) which contains the version of the Terraform CLI binary running the test.

The [`tfversion.CheckTerraformVersionResponse`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion#CheckTerraformVersionResponse) has an `Error` field and a `Skip` field. The behavior of the version check depends on which field is populated. Populating the `Error` field will fail the associated test with the given error.
Populating the `Skip` field will pass the associated test by skipping the test with the given skip message. Only one of these fields should be populated.

Here is an example implementation of a version check returns an error if the detected Terraform CLI version matches the given version:

```go
package example_test

import (
	"context"
	"fmt"

	"github.com/hashicorp/go-version"
)

// Ensure implementation satisfies the tfversion.TerraformVersionCheck interface.
var _ tfversion.TerraformVersionCheck = requireNotCheck{}

// RequireNot will fail the test if the given version matches.
func RequireNot(v *version.Version) tfversion.TerraformVersionCheck {
	return requireNotCheck{
		version: v,
	}
}

type requireNotCheck struct {
	version *version.Version
}

func (s requireNotCheck) CheckTerraformVersion(ctx context.Context, req tfversion.CheckTerraformVersionRequest, resp *tfversion.CheckTerraformVersionResponse) {
	if req.TerraformVersion.Equal(s.version) {
		resp.Error = fmt.Errorf("unexpected Terraform CLI version: %s", s.version)
	}
}
```

And example usage:

```go
package example_test

import (
	"testing"

	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-go/tfprotov6"

	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/helper/resource"
	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion"
)

func Test_RequireNot(t *testing.T) {
	t.Parallel()

	resource.UnitTest(t, resource.TestCase{
		ProtoV6ProviderFactories: map[string]func() (tfprotov6.ProviderServer, error){
			"test": func() (tfprotov6.ProviderServer, error) {
				return nil, nil
			},
		},
		TerraformVersionChecks: []tfversion.TerraformVersionCheck{
			tfversion.RequireNot(tfversion.Version0_13_0),
		},
		Steps: []resource.TestStep{
			{
				Config: `//example test config`,
			},
		},
	})
}
```
