website/docs/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/plan-checks/index.mdx, before:

---
page_title: 'Plugin Development - Acceptance Testing: Plan Checks'
description: >-
  Plan Checks are test assertions that can inspect a plan at different phases in a TestStep. The testing module
  provides built-in Plan Checks for common use-cases, but custom Plan Checks can also be implemented.
---

# Plan Checks

During the **Lifecycle (config)** and **Refresh** [modes](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/teststep#test-modes) of a `TestStep`, the testing framework will run `terraform plan` before and after certain operations. For example, the **Lifecycle (config)** mode will run a plan before the `terraform apply` phase, as well as a plan before and after the `terraform refresh` phase.

These `terraform plan` operations results in a [plan file](/terraform/cli/commands/plan#out-filename) and can be represented by this [JSON format](/terraform/internals/json-format#plan-representation).

A **plan check** is a test assertion that inspects the plan file at a specific phase during the current testing mode. Multiple plan checks can be run at each defined phase, all assertion errors returned are aggregated, reported as a test failure, and all test cleanup logic is executed.

- Available plan phases for **Lifecycle (config)** mode are defined in the [`TestStep.ConfigPlanChecks`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/helper/resource#TestStep) struct
- Available plan phases for **Refresh** mode are defined in the [`TestStep.RefreshPlanChecks`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/helper/resource#TestStep) struct
- **Import** mode currently does not run any plan operations, and therefore does not support plan checks.

Refer to:

- [General Plan Checks](#general-plan-checks) for built-in general purpose plan checks.
- [Resource Plan Checks](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/plan-checks/resource) for built-in resource-related plan checks.
- [Output Plan Checks](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/plan-checks/output) for built-in output-related plan checks.
- [Custom Plan Checks](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/plan-checks/custom) for defining bespoke plan checks.

## General Plan Checks

The `terraform-plugin-testing` module provides a package [`plancheck`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/plancheck) with built-in general plan checks for common use-cases:

| Check                                                                                                                             | Description                                                        |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [`plancheck.ExpectEmptyPlan()`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/plancheck#ExpectEmptyPlan)       | Asserts the entire plan has no operations for apply.               |
| [`plancheck.ExpectNonEmptyPlan()`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/plancheck#ExpectNonEmptyPlan) | Asserts the entire plan contains at least one operation for apply. |

## Examples using `plancheck.ExpectEmptyPlan`

One of the built-in plan checks, [`plancheck.ExpectEmptyPlan`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/plancheck#ExpectEmptyPlan), is useful for determining a plan is a no-op prior to, for instance, the `terraform apply` phase.

Given the following example with the [random provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/random/latest/docs/resources/string), we have written a test that asserts that `random_string.one` will be destroyed and re-created when the `length` attribute is changed:

```go
func Test_Random_EmptyPlan(t *testing.T) {
	t.Parallel()

	r.Test(t, r.TestCase{
		ExternalProviders: map[string]r.ExternalProvider{
			"random": {
				Source: "registry.terraform.io/hashicorp/random",
			},
		},
		Steps: []r.TestStep{
			{
				Config: `resource "random_string" "one" {
					length = 16
				}`,
			},
			{
				Config: `resource "random_string" "one" {
					length = 16
				}`,
				ConfigPlanChecks: r.ConfigPlanChecks{
					PreApply: []plancheck.PlanCheck{
						plancheck.ExpectEmptyPlan(),
					},
				},
			},
		},
	})
}
```

Commit message:

Rewording to explicitly mention data sources (#219)

website/docs/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/plan-checks/index.mdx, after:

---
page_title: 'Plugin Development - Acceptance Testing: Plan Checks'
description: >-
  Plan Checks are test assertions that can inspect a plan at different phases in a TestStep. The testing module
  provides built-in Plan Checks for common use-cases, and custom Plan Checks can also be implemented.
---

# Plan Checks

During the **Lifecycle (config)** and **Refresh** [modes](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/teststep#test-modes) of a `TestStep`, the testing framework will run `terraform plan` before and after certain operations. For example, the **Lifecycle (config)** mode will run a plan before the `terraform apply` phase, as well as a plan before and after the `terraform refresh` phase.

These `terraform plan` operations results in a [plan file](/terraform/cli/commands/plan#out-filename) and can be represented by this [JSON format](/terraform/internals/json-format#plan-representation).

A **plan check** is a test assertion that inspects the plan file at a specific phase during the current testing mode. Multiple plan checks can be run at each defined phase, all assertion errors returned are aggregated, reported as a test failure, and all test cleanup logic is executed.

- Available plan phases for **Lifecycle (config)** mode are defined in the [`TestStep.ConfigPlanChecks`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/helper/resource#TestStep) struct
- Available plan phases for **Refresh** mode are defined in the [`TestStep.RefreshPlanChecks`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/helper/resource#TestStep) struct
- **Import** mode currently does not run any plan operations, and therefore does not support plan checks.

Refer to:

- [General Plan Checks](#general-plan-checks) for built-in general purpose plan checks.
- [Resource Plan Checks](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/plan-checks/resource) for built-in managed resource and data source plan checks.
- [Output Plan Checks](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/plan-checks/output) for built-in output-related plan checks.
- [Custom Plan Checks](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/plan-checks/custom) for defining bespoke plan checks.

## General Plan Checks

The `terraform-plugin-testing` module provides a package [`plancheck`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/plancheck) with built-in general plan checks for common use-cases:

| Check                                                                                                                             | Description                                                        |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [`plancheck.ExpectEmptyPlan()`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/plancheck#ExpectEmptyPlan)       | Asserts the entire plan has no operations for apply.               |
| [`plancheck.ExpectNonEmptyPlan()`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/plancheck#ExpectNonEmptyPlan) | Asserts the entire plan contains at least one operation for apply. |

## Examples using `plancheck.ExpectEmptyPlan`

One of the built-in plan checks, [`plancheck.ExpectEmptyPlan`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/plancheck#ExpectEmptyPlan), is useful for determining a plan is a no-op prior to, for instance, the `terraform apply` phase.

Given the following example with the [random provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/random/latest/docs/resources/string), we have written a test that asserts that `random_string.one` will be destroyed and re-created when the `length` attribute is changed:

```go
func Test_Random_EmptyPlan(t *testing.T) {
	t.Parallel()

	r.Test(t, r.TestCase{
		ExternalProviders: map[string]r.ExternalProvider{
			"random": {
				Source: "registry.terraform.io/hashicorp/random",
			},
		},
		Steps: []r.TestStep{
			{
				Config: `resource "random_string" "one" {
					length = 16
				}`,
			},
			{
				Config: `resource "random_string" "one" {
					length = 16
				}`,
				ConfigPlanChecks: r.ConfigPlanChecks{
					PreApply: []plancheck.PlanCheck{
						plancheck.ExpectEmptyPlan(),
					},
				},
			},
		},
	})
}
```
