website/docs/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/plan-checks/output.mdx, before:

---
page_title: 'Plugin Development - Acceptance Testing: Plan Checks'
description: >-
  Plan Checks are test assertions that can inspect a plan at different phases in a TestStep. The testing module
  provides built-in Output Value Plan Checks for common use-cases.
---

# Output Plan Checks

The `terraform-plugin-testing` module provides a package [`plancheck`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/plancheck) with built-in output value plan checks for common use-cases:

| Check                                                                                                                                     | Description                                                                              |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [`ExpectKnownOutputValue`](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/plan-checks/output#expectknownoutputvalue-plan-check)               | Asserts the output at the specified address has the specified type, and value.           |
| [`ExpectKnownOutputValueAtPath`](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/plan-checks/output#expectknownoutputvalueatpath-plan-check)   | Asserts the output at the specified address, and path has the specified type, and value. |
| [`ExpectNullOutputValue`](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/plan-checks/output#expectnulloutputvalue-plan-check)                 | Asserts the output at the specified address has a null value.                            |
| [`ExpectNullOutputValueAtPath`](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/plan-checks/output#expectnulloutputvalueatpath-plan-check)     | Asserts the output at the specified address, and path has a null value.                  |
| [`ExpectUnknownOutputValue`](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/plan-checks/output#expectunknownoutputvalue-plan-check)           | Asserts the output at the specified address has an unknown value.                        |
| [`ExpectUnknownOutputValueAtPath`](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/plan-checks/output#expectknownoutputvalueatpath-plan-check) | Asserts the output at the specified address, and path has an unknown value.              |

## `ExpectKnownOutputValue` Plan Check

The [`plancheck.ExpectKnownOutputValue(address, value)`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/plancheck#ExpectKnownOutputValue) plan check verifies that a specific output value has a known type, and value.

Refer to [Known Value Checks](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/known-value-checks) for details, and examples of the available [knownvalue.Check](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/knownvalue#Check) types that can be used with the `ExpectKnownOutputValue` plan check.

```go
package example_test

import (
	"testing"

	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/helper/resource"
	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/knownvalue"
	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/plancheck"
)

func TestExpectKnownOutputValue_CheckPlan_Bool(t *testing.T) {
	t.Parallel()

	resource.Test(t, resource.TestCase{
		// Provider definition omitted.
		Steps: []resource.TestStep{
			{
				Config: `resource "test_resource" "one" {
					bool_attribute = true
				}

				output bool_output {
					value = test_resource.one.bool_attribute
				}
				`,
				ConfigPlanChecks: resource.ConfigPlanChecks{
					PreApply: []plancheck.PlanCheck{
						plancheck.ExpectKnownOutputValue(
							"bool_output",
							knownvalue.Bool(true),
						),
					},
				},
			},
		},
	})
}
```

## `ExpectKnownOutputValueAtPath` Plan Check

The [`plancheck.ExpectKnownOutputValueAtPath(address, path, value)`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/plancheck#ExpectKnownOutputValueAtPath) plan check verifies that a specific output value at a defined path has a known type, and value.

Refer to [Known Value Checks](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/known-value-checks) for details, and examples of the available [knownvalue.Check](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/knownvalue#Check) types that can be used with the `ExpectKnownOutputValueAtPath` plan check.

```go
package example_test

import (
	"testing"

	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/helper/resource"
	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/knownvalue"
	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/plancheck"
)

func TestExpectKnownOutputValue_CheckPlan_Bool(t *testing.T) {
	t.Parallel()

	resource.Test(t, resource.TestCase{
		// Provider definition omitted.
		Steps: []resource.TestStep{
			{
				Config: `resource "test_resource" "one" {
					bool_attribute = true
				}

				output bool_output {
					value = test_resource.one.bool_attribute
				}
				`,
				ConfigPlanChecks: resource.ConfigPlanChecks{
					PreApply: []plancheck.PlanCheck{
						plancheck.ExpectKnownOutputValue(
							"bool_output",
							knownvalue.Bool(true),
						),
					},
				},
			},
		},
	})
}
```

## `ExpectNullOutputValue` Plan Check

~> **Note**: `ExpectNullOutputValue` is deprecated. Use [`ExpectKnownOutputValue`](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/plan-checks/output#expectknownoutputvalue-plan-check) with [`knownvalue.Null()`](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/known-value-checks#null) instead.

The built-in [`plancheck.ExpectNullOutputValue(address)`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/plancheck#ExpectNullOutputValue) plan check determines whether an output at the specified address has a null value.

```go
package example_test

import (
	"testing"

	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/helper/resource"
	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/plancheck"
)

func Test_ExpectNullOutputValue_StringAttribute_NullConfig(t *testing.T) {
	t.Parallel()

	resource.Test(t, resource.TestCase{
		// Provider definition omitted.
		Steps: []resource.TestStep{
			{
				Config: `resource "test_resource" "test" {
					string_attribute = null
				}

				output "string_attribute" {
					value = test_resource.test.string_attribute
				}
				`,
				ConfigPlanChecks: resource.ConfigPlanChecks{
					PreApply: []plancheck.PlanCheck{
						plancheck.ExpectNullOutputValue("string_attribute"),
					},
				},
			},
		},
	})
}
```

## `ExpectNullOutputValueAtPath` Plan Check

~> **Note**: `ExpectNullOutputValueAtPath` is deprecated. Use [`ExpectKnownOutputValueAtPath`](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/plan-checks/output#expectknownoutputvalueatpath-plan-check) with [`knownvalue.Null()`](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/known-value-checks#null) instead.

The built-in [`plancheck.ExpectNullOutputValueAtPath(address, path)`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/plancheck#ExpectNullOutputValueAtPath) plan check determines whether an output at the specified address, and path has a null value.                  |

```go
package example_test

import (
	"testing"

	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/helper/resource"
	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/plancheck"
	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfjsonpath"
	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion"
)

func Test_ExpectNullOutputValueAtPath_StringAttribute_NullConfig(t *testing.T) {
	t.Parallel()

	resource.Test(t, resource.TestCase{
		// Prior to Terraform v1.3.0 a planned output is marked as fully unknown
		// if any attribute is unknown. The id attribute within the test provider
		// is unknown.
		// Reference: https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/blob/v1.3/CHANGELOG.md#130-september-21-2022
		TerraformVersionChecks: []tfversion.TerraformVersionCheck{
			tfversion.SkipBelow(tfversion.Version1_3_0),
		},
		// Provider definition omitted.
		Steps: []resource.TestStep{
			{
				Config: `resource "test_resource" "test" {
					string_attribute = null
				}

				output "resource" {
					value = test_resource.test
				}
				`,
				ConfigPlanChecks: resource.ConfigPlanChecks{
					PreApply: []plancheck.PlanCheck{
						plancheck.ExpectNullOutputValueAtPath("resource", tfjsonpath.New("string_attribute")),
					},
				},
			},
		},
	})
}
```

## `ExpectUnknownOutputValue` Plan Check

One of the built-in plan checks, [`plancheck.ExpectUnknownOutputValue`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/plancheck#ExpectUnknownOutputValue), determines whether an output value is unknown, for example, prior to the `terraform apply` phase.

The following uses the [time_offset](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/time/latest/docs/resources/offset) resource from the [time provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/time/latest), to illustrate usage of the [`plancheck.ExpectUnknownOutputValue`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/plancheck#ExpectUnknownOutputValue), and verifies that `day` is unknown.

```go
package example_test

import (
	"testing"

	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/helper/resource"
	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/plancheck"
)

func Test_Time_Unknown(t *testing.T) {
	t.Parallel()

	resource.Test(t, resource.TestCase{
		ExternalProviders: map[string]resource.ExternalProvider{
			"time": {
				Source: "registry.terraform.io/hashicorp/time",
			},
		},
		Steps: []resource.TestStep{
			{
				Config: `resource "time_offset" "one" {
                    offset_days = 1
                  }

				  output day {
                    value = time_offset.one.day
				  }`,
				ConfigPlanChecks: resource.ConfigPlanChecks{
					PreApply: []plancheck.PlanCheck{
						plancheck.ExpectUnknownOutputValue("day"),
					},
				},
			},
		},
	})
}
```

## `ExpectUnknownOutputValueAtPath` Plan Check

Output values can contain objects or collections as well as primitive (e.g., string) values. Output value plan checks provide two forms for the plan checks, for example `ExpectUnknownOutputValue()`, and `ExpectUnknownOutputValueAtPath()`. The `Expect<...>OutputValueAtPath()` form is used to access a value contained within an object or collection, as illustrated in the following example.

```go
package example_test

import (
	"testing"

	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/helper/resource"
	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/plancheck"
	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfjsonpath"
)

func Test_Time_Unknown(t *testing.T) {
	t.Parallel()

	resource.Test(t, resource.TestCase{
		ExternalProviders: map[string]resource.ExternalProvider{
			"time": {
				Source: "registry.terraform.io/hashicorp/time",
			},
		},
		Steps: []resource.TestStep{
			{
				Config: `resource "time_offset" "one" {
                    offset_days = 1
                  }

				  output time_offset_one {
                    value = time_offset.one
				  }`,
				ConfigPlanChecks: resource.ConfigPlanChecks{
					PreApply: []plancheck.PlanCheck{
						plancheck.ExpectUnknownOutputValueAtPath("time_offset_one", tfjsonpath.New("day")),
					},
				},
			},
		},
	})
}
```

Commit message:

Modify docs to highlight caveats of using ExpectKnownOutputValueAtPath plan check with versions of Terraform <1.3.0

website/docs/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/plan-checks/output.mdx, after:

---
page_title: 'Plugin Development - Acceptance Testing: Plan Checks'
description: >-
  Plan Checks are test assertions that can inspect a plan at different phases in a TestStep. The testing module
  provides built-in Output Value Plan Checks for common use-cases.
---

# Output Plan Checks

The `terraform-plugin-testing` module provides a package [`plancheck`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/plancheck) with built-in output value plan checks for common use-cases:

| Check                                                                                                                                     | Description                                                                              |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [`ExpectKnownOutputValue`](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/plan-checks/output#expectknownoutputvalue-plan-check)               | Asserts the output at the specified address has the specified type, and value.           |
| [`ExpectKnownOutputValueAtPath`](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/plan-checks/output#expectknownoutputvalueatpath-plan-check)   | Asserts the output at the specified address, and path has the specified type, and value. |
| [`ExpectNullOutputValue`](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/plan-checks/output#expectnulloutputvalue-plan-check)                 | Asserts the output at the specified address has a null value.                            |
| [`ExpectNullOutputValueAtPath`](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/plan-checks/output#expectnulloutputvalueatpath-plan-check)     | Asserts the output at the specified address, and path has a null value.                  |
| [`ExpectUnknownOutputValue`](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/plan-checks/output#expectunknownoutputvalue-plan-check)           | Asserts the output at the specified address has an unknown value.                        |
| [`ExpectUnknownOutputValueAtPath`](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/plan-checks/output#expectknownoutputvalueatpath-plan-check) | Asserts the output at the specified address, and path has an unknown value.              |

## `ExpectKnownOutputValue` Plan Check

The [`plancheck.ExpectKnownOutputValue(address, value)`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/plancheck#ExpectKnownOutputValue) plan check verifies that a specific output value has a known type, and value.

Refer to [Known Value Checks](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/known-value-checks) for details, and examples of the available [knownvalue.Check](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/knownvalue#Check) types that can be used with the `ExpectKnownOutputValue` plan check.

```go
package example_test

import (
	"testing"

	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/helper/resource"
	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/knownvalue"
	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/plancheck"
)

func TestExpectKnownOutputValue_CheckPlan_Bool(t *testing.T) {
	t.Parallel()

	resource.Test(t, resource.TestCase{
		// Provider definition omitted.
		Steps: []resource.TestStep{
			{
				Config: `resource "test_resource" "one" {
					bool_attribute = true
				}

				output bool_output {
					value = test_resource.one.bool_attribute
				}
				`,
				ConfigPlanChecks: resource.ConfigPlanChecks{
					PreApply: []plancheck.PlanCheck{
						plancheck.ExpectKnownOutputValue(
							"bool_output",
							knownvalue.Bool(true),
						),
					},
				},
			},
		},
	})
}
```

## `ExpectKnownOutputValueAtPath` Plan Check

The [`plancheck.ExpectKnownOutputValueAtPath(address, path, value)`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/plancheck#ExpectKnownOutputValueAtPath) plan check verifies that a specific output value at a defined path has a known type, and value.

~> **Note**: Prior to Terraform v1.3.0 a planned output is marked as fully unknown if any attribute is unknown.

Refer to [Known Value Checks](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/known-value-checks) for details, and examples of the available [knownvalue.Check](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/knownvalue#Check) types that can be used with the `ExpectKnownOutputValueAtPath` plan check.

```go
package example_test

import (
	"testing"

	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/helper/resource"
	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/knownvalue"
	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/plancheck"
)

func TestExpectKnownOutputValue_CheckPlan_Bool(t *testing.T) {
	t.Parallel()

	resource.Test(t, resource.TestCase{
		// Provider definition omitted.
		Steps: []resource.TestStep{
			{
				Config: `resource "test_resource" "one" {
					bool_attribute = true
				}

				output bool_output {
					value = test_resource.one.bool_attribute
				}
				`,
				ConfigPlanChecks: resource.ConfigPlanChecks{
					PreApply: []plancheck.PlanCheck{
						plancheck.ExpectKnownOutputValue(
							"bool_output",
							knownvalue.Bool(true),
						),
					},
				},
			},
		},
	})
}
```

## `ExpectNullOutputValue` Plan Check

~> **Note**: `ExpectNullOutputValue` is deprecated. Use [`ExpectKnownOutputValue`](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/plan-checks/output#expectknownoutputvalue-plan-check) with [`knownvalue.Null()`](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/known-value-checks#null) instead.

The built-in [`plancheck.ExpectNullOutputValue(address)`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/plancheck#ExpectNullOutputValue) plan check determines whether an output at the specified address has a null value.

```go
package example_test

import (
	"testing"

	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/helper/resource"
	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/plancheck"
)

func Test_ExpectNullOutputValue_StringAttribute_NullConfig(t *testing.T) {
	t.Parallel()

	resource.Test(t, resource.TestCase{
		// Provider definition omitted.
		Steps: []resource.TestStep{
			{
				Config: `resource "test_resource" "test" {
					string_attribute = null
				}

				output "string_attribute" {
					value = test_resource.test.string_attribute
				}
				`,
				ConfigPlanChecks: resource.ConfigPlanChecks{
					PreApply: []plancheck.PlanCheck{
						plancheck.ExpectNullOutputValue("string_attribute"),
					},
				},
			},
		},
	})
}
```

## `ExpectNullOutputValueAtPath` Plan Check

~> **Note**: `ExpectNullOutputValueAtPath` is deprecated. Use [`ExpectKnownOutputValueAtPath`](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/plan-checks/output#expectknownoutputvalueatpath-plan-check) with [`knownvalue.Null()`](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests/known-value-checks#null) instead.

The built-in [`plancheck.ExpectNullOutputValueAtPath(address, path)`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/plancheck#ExpectNullOutputValueAtPath) plan check determines whether an output at the specified address, and path has a null value.                  |

```go
package example_test

import (
	"testing"

	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/helper/resource"
	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/plancheck"
	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfjsonpath"
	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfversion"
)

func Test_ExpectNullOutputValueAtPath_StringAttribute_NullConfig(t *testing.T) {
	t.Parallel()

	resource.Test(t, resource.TestCase{
		// Prior to Terraform v1.3.0 a planned output is marked as fully unknown
		// if any attribute is unknown. The id attribute within the test provider
		// is unknown.
		// Reference: https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/blob/v1.3/CHANGELOG.md#130-september-21-2022
		TerraformVersionChecks: []tfversion.TerraformVersionCheck{
			tfversion.SkipBelow(tfversion.Version1_3_0),
		},
		// Provider definition omitted.
		Steps: []resource.TestStep{
			{
				Config: `resource "test_resource" "test" {
					string_attribute = null
				}

				output "resource" {
					value = test_resource.test
				}
				`,
				ConfigPlanChecks: resource.ConfigPlanChecks{
					PreApply: []plancheck.PlanCheck{
						plancheck.ExpectNullOutputValueAtPath("resource", tfjsonpath.New("string_attribute")),
					},
				},
			},
		},
	})
}
```

## `ExpectUnknownOutputValue` Plan Check

One of the built-in plan checks, [`plancheck.ExpectUnknownOutputValue`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/plancheck#ExpectUnknownOutputValue), determines whether an output value is unknown, for example, prior to the `terraform apply` phase.

The following uses the [time_offset](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/time/latest/docs/resources/offset) resource from the [time provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/time/latest), to illustrate usage of the [`plancheck.ExpectUnknownOutputValue`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/plancheck#ExpectUnknownOutputValue), and verifies that `day` is unknown.

```go
package example_test

import (
	"testing"

	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/helper/resource"
	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/plancheck"
)

func Test_Time_Unknown(t *testing.T) {
	t.Parallel()

	resource.Test(t, resource.TestCase{
		ExternalProviders: map[string]resource.ExternalProvider{
			"time": {
				Source: "registry.terraform.io/hashicorp/time",
			},
		},
		Steps: []resource.TestStep{
			{
				Config: `resource "time_offset" "one" {
                    offset_days = 1
                  }

				  output day {
                    value = time_offset.one.day
				  }`,
				ConfigPlanChecks: resource.ConfigPlanChecks{
					PreApply: []plancheck.PlanCheck{
						plancheck.ExpectUnknownOutputValue("day"),
					},
				},
			},
		},
	})
}
```

## `ExpectUnknownOutputValueAtPath` Plan Check

Output values can contain objects or collections as well as primitive (e.g., string) values. Output value plan checks provide two forms for the plan checks, for example `ExpectUnknownOutputValue()`, and `ExpectUnknownOutputValueAtPath()`. The `Expect<...>OutputValueAtPath()` form is used to access a value contained within an object or collection, as illustrated in the following example.

```go
package example_test

import (
	"testing"

	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/helper/resource"
	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/plancheck"
	"github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing/tfjsonpath"
)

func Test_Time_Unknown(t *testing.T) {
	t.Parallel()

	resource.Test(t, resource.TestCase{
		ExternalProviders: map[string]resource.ExternalProvider{
			"time": {
				Source: "registry.terraform.io/hashicorp/time",
			},
		},
		Steps: []resource.TestStep{
			{
				Config: `resource "time_offset" "one" {
                    offset_days = 1
                  }

				  output time_offset_one {
                    value = time_offset.one
				  }`,
				ConfigPlanChecks: resource.ConfigPlanChecks{
					PreApply: []plancheck.PlanCheck{
						plancheck.ExpectUnknownOutputValueAtPath("time_offset_one", tfjsonpath.New("day")),
					},
				},
			},
		},
	})
}
```
